Quantum measure theory 서문

The quantum measure theory is the theory of measures and states on projection lattices of von Neumann algebras.

In the standard measure theory, the baisc role is played by a measure on the ${ \sigma }$-field, ${ \mathcal{P} }$, of subsets of some set. From an abstrct point of view ${ \mathcal{P} }$ forms a Boolean algebra with respect to usual set theoretic opertations.

In the quantum measure theory the basic entity is a measure on the projection lattice, ${ \mathcal{L} }$, of a von Neumann algebra, or, equivalently, a measure of the structure of closed subspace in a Hilbert space. The additivity is assumed w.r.t. mutually orthogonal subspaces.

Obviously, the lattice ${ \mathcal{L} }$ is not Boolean in general. The transition from the ${ \sigma }$-field ${ \mathcal{P} }$ to the projection lattice ${ \mathcal{L} }$ consists in replacing the disjointeness of sets by a geometric concept of orthogonality of subspaces. It is a general goal of this book to show that this replacement and the study of "measure-theoretic" problems lead to a substantially new kind of measure theory

keywords: [von Neumann algebra], [orthogonal projection], [positive normalized functional]

natural duality ${ \langle \cdot,\cdot \rangle }$ between the sturcture of observables and the structure of states. This duality is given by the evaluation

$$ \langle a,\varrho \rangle = \varrho(a) $$
where ${ a }$ is an obsevable and ${ \varrho }$ is a state. ${ \varrho(a) }$ represents the expectation value of the observable ${ a }$ when the system is prepared in the state ${ \varrho }$.

The system of axioms has proved to be very effective. Nevertheless, it has been primarily adopted for the pragmatic reason of mathematical convenience often without a direct physical justification. For example, the assumption that a satate is completetly additive (needed to represent a state by a density matrix) is a purely mathematical construction that has no physical justification because any physical observation may rely only on finitely many arithmetic orperations. Therefore, as it was soon recognized by von Neumann, Segal, Birkhoff, Mackey, Varadarajan, Jauch, Piron, and others, an "appropriate" axiomatization of quantum theory should strive for recovering all aspects of the formalism outlined above from the concept of finitely additive measure on projections. Also, it should single out the projection lattice of a von Neumann algebra among all possible abstract ordered structures with orthocomplementation that may be relevant to the features of quantum system.

### Results

Gleason type theorems and their applications to various problems in quantum theory (hidden variables problem, Wigner type theorems on symmetries, velocity maps on von Neumann algebras, quantum history approach, quantum information theory, ect.)